## Professional Self-Assessment

  I have been in the Computer Science program for a total of four years. During my time as a Computer Science major, I have learned how to write and develop programs using various coding languages such as C++, Python, and Java. Throughout the Computer Science program, I have coded several projects that showcase my knowledge of these different coding languages.
My future career consists of me knowing how to develop a program using various coding languages. This is important because I want to become a software developer and the main task for a software developer is to collaborate with a team of developers to create and maintain a coding project. To do this, I need to be able to understand different coding languages that are used in the project and the coding environments that are used in the project as well. My career plan is to get into an entry-level position for a Tech company that will utilize my coding experience and help me further my knowledge with firsthand experience. I would like to start from the bottom and work my way up the company.

  My specialization is with computers in general but if I had to be more specific it would be programming with C++, Java, and Python as a back-end developer.
  
  While working through the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University, I have learned and improved coding skills, abilities, and knowledge. I have improved my attention to detail with coding projects that allows me to debug projects in a timely manner by being cautious in the development process and continuously testing the changes made to the project to prevent there being a long list of errors at the end of the project. Testing the code as you work through a project is crucial to ensure that the project is free of vulnerabilities, errors, and that the project works as intended.
  
  Attention to detail is a skill that every software developer improves which not only improves the final output of the project but also improves the developers’ coding skills. By using best practices with attention to detail, I can analyze my code and the code of my peers to look for mistakes and vulnerabilities that may have been overlooked during the development process. Coding reviews helps this process as the code can be looked at with a fresh mindset on what the purpose of the code is, what the developer is trying to achieve, and what the output is supposed to look like. Best practices come into play when coding to allow the code to be readable by other developers and not just yourself. This includes proper formatting of the code and commenting on the code to briefly describe a function or to comment changes made to the code during the code review.
  
  Since the start of my journey through the Computer Science program, I have learned the importance of the Software Development Life Cycle and how to apply SCRUM strategies to the projects. Either working on the projects by myself or working on the projects with a team, I have learned the process it takes to plan the project and what it takes to coordinate a development team through the Software Development Life Cycle to get the project to its desired output in the specified time frame that is available for the project. Understanding the needs of the client is a big part of the Software Development Life Cycle as it allows the developers to fill those needs in the project by using desired algorithms or designs. Taking the clients desired output and turning it into a reality is a success for both the client and the team developing the project.
  
  Throughout the Computer Science program, I have increased my ability to learn new skills in a timely manner. I learned how to create a fully functioning webpage using HTML and JavaScript within a short period of time and I can take this new knowledge with me to develop it further. The artifacts that are in this ePortfolio demonstrate how far I have come from the beginning of my journey at Southern New Hampshire University. Coming into the program with no coding or software development knowledge and coming out of the program with the knowledge to make full-stack, front-end, and back-end projects. These artifacts demonstrate my technology skills in software engineering, data structures and algorithms, databases, and security. The skills that I am coming out of the Computer Science program with show that I can create projects that can not only be understood by the computer but also can be understood by the developers that come across the projects.

[Home](/README.md)
